I would reviewed over a dozen CPUs this
year it's time to round up the best of
2019 with the first installment of our
annual GN awards show in this series
we'll pick the best products for
different categories like performance
overall quality gaming overclocking and
more our goal today is to help you parse
the best CPUs in each category so that
you can pick the right parts for PC
build purchases especially during Black
Friday Cyber Monday and other holiday
sales at the end of this content one of
two companies will walk away with a GN
award crystal for its efforts this year
our award crystals are a 3d laser
engraved glass cubes that feature a GN
teardown logo replete with easter eggs
like MOSFETs and doctors VRMs PCIe slots
fans and even screws all in 3d and
either AMD or Intel will get one of
those for 2019 before that this video is
brought to you by us and the GN store
although the companies have to earn
their awards to get them you can buy
your own GN tear down crystal at stored
our cameras axis dotnet we also recently
restocked our blueprint heather true
royal t-shirts anniversary edition teal
logo cotton shirts and the large mod
mats are also in stock and shipping now
if you want to support our work over the
past year head to store documents access
net and additionally we're working with
Eden reforestation projects through
November to plant ten trees for each
item sold on the store click the link in
the description below so reminder for
this type of content this is a roundup
it's a year-round roundup it's a bit of
a feel-good piece because we get to go
through all of the highlights for the
year so that's fun but data is not the
focused we are recapping things we're
going to pull charts sparingly and show
you the most important ones but it's not
going to be all charts start to finish
we'll have a lot of b-roll in here too
if you want more data on any of these
CPU so you can check each CPUs
individual review if they're all on
YouTube for the whole year and the most
recent reviews will have the most
up-to-date data from us so that'd be
things like the threader / 3 Series the
AMD rise in 339 50x is pretty new and
then the Intel I 990 100k ash those are
the reviews you should look at if you
want the most up-to-date Windows
versions game versions all that stuff in
our testing methodology so let's start
it out we'll go through all the best for
different categories and then the last
one will be the worst trend the best
worst trend it's a good one this year
our first award for the year is for Best
Overall this isn't just
best overall value but just for the best
all-around her period
this year the a.m. the horizon 530 600
receives our GN award crystal for its
$200 n to processor succeeding our 2018
award for best overall value that was
given to the AMD r5 2600
although the r5 still receives an award
here the reasoning for its receipt has
only been magnified with the eulogizing
of Intel's Core i5 processors and I'll
begin cannibalizing its core i5 line
with its own products years ago but AMD
finished what it started in 2017 with
2018 and these are 5 2600 killed off
what remained of the core i5 value
proposition in 2019 when the a and the
r5 3600 launched we're reminded of a
scene from The Simpsons the r5 3,600
ticks all the boxes that the r5 2600 did
but has greatly improved in its gaming
performance and just in general the
Delta between the Intel i5 CPUs and the
and the r5 CPUs has shrunken this year
with the maximum Delta now typically
around 13% benefit for Intel with the
9600 K but the thin is the sacrifice in
favor of this is too great to be
worthwhile not only is the gaming
benefit limited as shown in some of our
gaming charts it's also transitory in
more games each year we're noticing the
cut-down core i5s
exhibiting same time variability that
counteracts it's fleeting performance
superiority with unreliable stuttering
behavior the AMD r5 3600 is more
reliable and consistent in its
performance across all the games we
tested making it the better gaming
option all around beyond even that we've
also Illustrated that the r5 3600 is an
extremely capable performer for hobbyist
production or creation tasks on a budget
if you're a 3d modeler or animator and
still prefer a frame-by-frame rendering
to say Eevee blender fully leverages the
12 threads and positions the r5 3600
close to the r7 2700 X and Intel i7 9700
K further it's a strong adobe premiere
and live streaming performer offering an
entry-level working person CPU
although overclocking is still somewhat
limited the non x version of the 3600
gives enough Headroom to play around
while being able to save
money versus the really not worthwhile X
version AMD has done exceptionally well
with its R 5 Series pricing and
positioning and the r5 3600 takes the
reigns from the 2600 deftly and
unwaveringly this easily wins the award
for best overall CP of 2019 with no
hesitation at all in this choice we've
now arrived to one of two awards that
Intel will be receiving for the year and
it's for best gaming CPU there are a lot
of caveats here but at the end of the
day Intel's 9900 K and 9800 K s CPUs the
latter of which isn't particularly worth
buying remain chart toppers for CPU
gaming performance ultimately not many
people need this level of performance
but for anyone dead set on pushing the
highest possible frame rates or trying
to saturate high refresh displays the
9900 K will be the most likely to meet
those demands it's a little boring
though because this isn't a 20-19 CPU
technically the 9900 KS is but that
doesn't much count since it's literally
a 9900 K that's been bent
anyway the 9900 K gets the award for
best gaming CPU as it's still able to
chart top in every single title only
giving away occasionally to a 4.9
gigahertz all core OC 10-9 ATX e if
you're not able to justify the 900 K in
price the 9700 K has been competitive in
the past but we aren't as firm and our
ability to recommend the part given some
recent difficulties in games like Red
Dead Redemption to the night I heard K
retains our recommendation for hardcore
gaming only builds that have a big
budget whereas we defer to the 3600 for
more budget limited builds our award for
best small business and hobbyist
production for this year will go to the
AMD r9 39 50 X which has earned the
nickname baby thread report from our
viewers this CPU has all the cores
clocks and cache of a mini h EDT cpu and
it's even got a miniaturised version of
HDTV pricing but remains on the
mainstream desktop am4 platform this is
a good thing as the loss of PCIe lanes
and quad channel isn't as important as
the ability to keep costs particularly
motherboard costs down for many h EDT
buyers threader / always exists in the
upper echelon
but the 3950 X has done a phenomenal job
at pushing
until 18 core ten nine ATX II into
retirement
at its launch we think the 3950 axe is
excessive for most people as most things
that cost $750 are but we also think
it's the perfect fit for small
businesses or hobbyists with a bigger
budget but not quite a thread Ripper
budget specifically those hobbyists or
small businesses might be ones which
focus on movie or video production
wedding videographers djs youtubers
streamers animators 3d modelers
corporate training teams with multimedia
needs or other similar jobs a lot of the
budget-conscious businesses could reap
the benefits of the 3950 x without
burning through the entire PC budget on
just a CPU besides from a security
standpoint the Xen architecture has
proven at least to be somewhat more
hardened than Intel's existing chips
it's not invulnerable nothing is but
it's definitely doing better we've found
the 3950 X to be AMD's most
competitively positioned CP of the year
as it largely invalidated the 10-9 ATX
II while also avoiding many of the
single thread performance traps that its
previous high core count CPUs
encountered like the 1950 X as an
honorable mention if you're a small
business or a hobbyist on a tighter
budget consider the still good r7 2700
that we recommended for this same
category last year at present that CPU
is under a hundred and eighty dollars on
most retailers these days it won't be in
stock forever and it's not new but it is
cheap and it's every bit as good as it
used to be our next award is for best
budget gaming CPU and when we're looking
for budget here we really mean budget
ultra budget this one goes to the $50
Athlon 3000 G and these cheapest
installment and the Athlon line in a
while has recently arrived our Athlon
3000 G review is fast approaching but we
already have the performance locked down
the Athlon 3,000 G isn't a strong
performance but it fits in the good
enough category when compared to its
price point we'd recommend the CPU for
anyone who's trying to build a gaming PC
for maybe under 500 or even $450 or less
although we wouldn't recommend using it
for the integrated graphics processor
it's very weak it's a nice bonus but
realistically the CBA shines best when
used in conjunction with a cheap
dedicated GPU for gaming workloads that
said if you wanted a CPU for a non
gaming task like a
multimedia box just in the living room
then using the IGP might make sense here
either way you can expect performance as
matched with AD GPU to fall just under
the AMD r3 1200 or 1300 xcp is
previously so if you can find a 1300 X
for a similar price point and don't need
the IGP it might be a better option for
$50.00 though the Athlon 3000 G makes
sense for an ultra budget build for
lighter weight games it's also unlocked
like the Athlon 200 GE accidentally was
making it a good overclocker that can
actually gain a lot from performance it
even put 10 or 15 minutes into a simple
overclock keep in mind that this CPU
won't do well with more thread intensive
games like Assassin's Creed a total wart
the experience will be bad in some games
where you just don't have the threads to
deal with them but it will work relative
to its price fairly well on a lot of the
eSports titles as a runner-up we'd
recommend the AMD 3200 G APU we tend to
prefer cheap CPUs with a good cheap d
GPU option over an APU which integrates
a low-end IGP into the same package but
the 3,200 G is a good option for space
constrained builds or budget builds
where you may want a more powerful CPU
to go with a D GPU upgrade later the
next award is for most fun to overclock
we're going to split this one between
the AMD r9 39 50 X and Intel I $9.99
hundred KS the 10 9 8 exe was fine but
sort of boring when compared to the more
enthusiasts focused 79 ATX
II the Intel I $9.99 hundred KS is the
more fun of the chips for non extreme
overclocking as there's a lot of room
for voltage tuning particularly in the
negative direction to maximize the vault
frequency curve there's room to tweak on
core and core clocks alongside memory
and that room continues scaling into
extreme overclocking and competitive
overclocking endeavors where we were
able to with relatively minimal skill
hit just under 6 gigahertz the 3950 X
also lands on this chart but for a
different reason
the rise on 3000 CPUs in general have
potential to be a lot of fun or a lot of
frustration depending on what aspects of
overclocking you are most interested in
for ambient overclocking without extreme
cooling
you'll get the most gains from tuning
the Infinity fabric memory timings and
memory sub timings with a lot less to
gain from a pure core overclock we find
this fun but for people who don't have
any interest in memory tweak
you may want to just load XMP or best
case maybe use a rising dram calculator
and then move on there's more to gain
out of the Infinity fabric overclocking
than anything else but that changes with
exotic cooling for extreme cooling the
3950 ex turns into a lot more fun we
were blown away by how well ours in
particular overclocked but it makes
sense it's a better bin than the lower
tier skews we were able to hold about
5.2 to 5.3 gigahertz with liquid
nitrogen and it's a lot of fun to tune
all the a.m. the OSI options along the
way there's definitely a time to learn
with xoc on rise in 3000 like the fact
that infinity fabric has to be cut to
1467 megahertz wants going below about
minus 100 degrees Celsius and we find
this exploration process to be the most
entertaining aspect for enthusiasts
overclockers while the 9900 K and K s
just feels sort of standard the next is
for best high-end workstation CPU an
award we're assigning to the threader
for 39 70 X with a runner-up spot given
to the 39 60 X this would traditionally
be more contested between Intel and AMD
h EDT parts but release de Raadt
absolute havoc on Intel's 10 9 8 exe CPU
a lot of comments joked that Intel
launched the CPU that was obsolete
within six hours but even that is an
accurate it was obsolete immediately
Intel barely improved over its previous
generation and it only really managed
big gains when overclocked the 10 9 8
exe is still a great overclocker but
stock to stock it barely stands up to
the 39 50x if at all and often requires
that 4.9 gigahertz all core OC to match
some of the AMD 39 50 X results and
certainly the 39 60 X results if you
can't afford the threader for series the
39 50 X makes perfect sense as a cheaper
stand-in but for those who can the third
guy and somebody X offers linear scaling
and tile-based renderers that we tested
and other thread have the applications
like decompression work the 39 70 X blew
past our 2990 WX in our production
workload charts again 7-zip
decompression is a great example but
also managed to prove itself as a
capable gaming performer without major
stuttering issues found on previous h
EDT and the parts the threader 439 70 X
would be excellently deployed in a
compression or decompression box a
blender machine as in the software not a
little blender or anything else that
needs high memory density
and would also do well for managing
multiple streams from unbox if you're
looking for a workhorse and have minimal
gaming concern or secondary gaming
concern this CPU is the best choice in
its price class but it is expensive well
give an honorable mention to the 28 core
31 75 X we enjoyed testing this one at
the beginning of the year and it did
prove to be an exceptional performer
that particularly well established
itself in Adobe from your work but the
recent launches have made this CPU a lot
harder to recommend next up is a special
reward for GN viewers and for GN
manufacturers this award goes to Intel
for the biggest disappointment of 2019
in the CPU category the ten nine eight
exe wins this one last year we awarded
Intel's
$9.99 a DXE with our biggest
disappointment award for CPUs of the
time this year Intel can be the proud
recipient of its second consecutive
biggest disappointment award for the
sort of new 10000 series not quite 10th
gen 980 XE aside from the tone-deaf
nature of assigning a product name
that's impossible to quickly say and
easy to forget and I'll also assign its
products at nearly the same specs and
performance as the previous refresh the
99 ATX II which we thought was mostly
worse than the 79 80 XE before it the 79
80 XE is one of our favorite processors
of all time
mostly because enthusiast opportunities
for deleting applying liquid metal
pushing hard over clocks were so
plentiful the 99 80 X he went to solder
and to Intel's credit the community did
think it wanted that but this only
really made it better for XO Sears
otherwise it was a slightly faster
refresh that lost a lot of the
enthusiasts potential the biggest
downside with the 10 9 8 exe is that
it's actually slower in some instances
especially its name saying it is very
slow and annoying than the 99 80 XE the
slowdowns here are because of the new in
silicon mitigations for some of the
reason exploits Intel didn't mitigate
against all of the security
vulnerabilities zombie load 2.0 is still
a concern for instance but it began the
process for meltdown inspector the chip
is still vulnerable though regarding the
mitigations I guess you could say that
60% of the time they work every time the
1098 exe technically
different architecture name but you'd
never know it's anything more than a
frequency uptick if going by the chart
the 1098 exe ties with the 99 eighty
exeed a lot of our benchmarks or near
enough that it's error and it loses to
the 3950 x16 core cpu also $250 cheaper
in most of the charts the ten nine eight
exe let us down in almost every way
possible we were hoping that revives
some of our h EDT overclocking interests
and although it did hit 4.9 gigahertz
all core with liquid cooling it's not
really much different from the 79 80 XE
of 2017 in the grand scheme of things
even with the price reduction until
simply can't compete with this part
finally here's our last category the
worst trend and it's for pointless
product segmentation we've praised AMD a
lot in this video and Intel a little bit
but both deserve a smack for this
category our last award goes to both AMD
and Intel who can celebrate jointly for
receiving our award for the worst trend
of pointless product segmentation both
AMD and Intel are segmenting their
products into oblivion for AMD that be
the company's insistence to launch
products like the 3,600 X which is a
3600 with a very mild 200 megahertz pre
overclock and a cooler that's worse than
just buying a 3600 with an aftermarket
solution for cheaper than the 3600 axes
combined cost the 3700 X and 3800 X
don't both need to exist either as they
serve minimal purpose other than to make
people feel like they're somehow getting
better value by paying a lot more money
for what is functionally a sort of maybe
bin 2 CPU with no overclocking Headroom
to begin with Intel also does this
although it's less about segmentation
and more about refreshing the 1090 DXE
is a refresh the 9900 KS is a direct
refresh of the 900k it was a desperate
attempt at pushing out some sort of
product before end of year it's hard to
Dayna Intel specifically for pointless
segmentation in 2019 seen as the company
has failed to launch actually new
products in 2019 if we look at 2018 the
so called at ninth gen which most
certainly isn't a new generation mind
you had enough F u K and n SKUs too
confusing even the reviewers always my
[__] mind if there's another one
there's gonna be some missing syllables
for that last one because you need to be
advertiser friendly so that's it for the
roundup for best views of 2019 thank you
for watching we have a lot more of these
roundups coming up and if you want a
recap
of everything we've worked on for the
last year compressed into a couple days
worth of videos then subscribe for all
of that you can go to store docket
razaaq's s net to helps out directly and
we've restocked a lot of the stuff there
as well and patreon.com/scishow sexist
as well if you'd like to help us that
way thank you for watching we'll see you
all next time
[Music]